# BAX4X2-Project
Used-Car Sales-Price Dataset &amp; Prediction

Used cars represent a huge market in the US, with companies like CarMax, CarFax, and Cars.com all getting much or all of their business from this market. The goal of this project is to put together a business-ready dataset that can be used to develop models for predicting the fair price of a used vehicle. The main business purpose of this would be to help inform customer decisions on whether or not to purchase a vehicle by providing them with an accurate estimate of a vehicle’s true value. Many vendors such as CarFax already provide something like this to their customers, but Craigslist does not despite being a large hub for people seeking to purchase or sell used vehicles. Craigslist is not specifically a website dedicated to the sale of used cars, but is instead a classified advertisements website that many people use to sell and purchase vehicles, which is why it was chosen as the data source for this project. It was also chosen because many typical used car websites have strong blockers in place to prevent people from web-scraping them, whereas Craigslist does not. Three regions of California were chosen for scraping: Los Angeles County, San Diego County, and the Bay Area. In total, roughly 20,000 used car listings were scraped, along with 17 different features about the car being listed for sale and the post itself. BeautifulSoup and Selenium were used for the web-scraping section, RegEx was used to format all fields to minimize the cleaning needed in any analysis projects, and MongoDB was used as the database due to the sparse nature of the dataset. A mix between a flat and nested structure was used to structure every document. This was used in order to strike a balance between being able to load and flatten the data for machine learning projects and allowing for optimized querying of fields. We provide more details on the background, business value, technologies used, and the choices made in database structure below.


The goal of this project is to tackle a common problem in the automotive industry: how to determine the price of a used car. Many large vendors like CarMax, CarFax, and Cars.com base much or all of their business models on buying used cars and then reselling them. As part of this model, they often provide customers with an estimate of how much the car is worth according to their models or experts, and compare that to the actual price it is being sold for. The result is that customers are given more information to make their purchase decisions and can be influenced by the idea that they are getting a good deal on a used vehicle.
Although used cars are not the only source of business for Craigslist, a classified advertisement website, they are still a major marketplace for the purchase and sale of used cars. Despite this, they do not have any estimate of a car’s price available to customers like most of the other vendors in the market. As a result, we decided to implement a model trained on Craigslist used car listings in order to provide customers with a similar estimate on Craigslist as to other used car vendors. Four different models were tested, with the best performing and final model being XGBoost.
In addition to the prediction of car price, we also implement a ResNet image classification model which can classify a car image into one of 24 different car brands. The usefulness of this is that it is not always clear from a listing what the brand of a car is, despite this being a large determinant of price. This algorithm represents an opportunity to provide customers with this information without having to ask posters for additional information and potentially annoying them or causing them inconvenience.
Finally, we explain how the implementation of the XGBoost model has the potential to drive increased customer satisfaction and trust, and the image classification lays a useful foundation for expanding into other useful car characteristics such as year and condition.
